Machine learning (ML) pipelines are developed with various frameworks, storing important metadata including model architecture, optimizers, hyperparameters, and other metadata in their respective framework specific formats. These hinder understandability, explainability, and reuse of the pipeline and its underlying entities such as datasets, data preprocessing, and machine learning models. NIST has developed a draft standard, called Machine Learning Lifecycle Ontology (MLLO), for representing pipeline data so that ML pipelines can be better reused, leading to improving ML development and deployment. A tool for pipeline data extraction from the TensorFlow framework has also been developed as part of the MLLO validation. This project extended that tool to validate MLLO against two other frameworks, namely PyTorch and Scikit-Learn.

Building off of these frameworks, the project will introduce the Machine Learning Lifecycle Ontology (MLLO) and the challenge of extracting consistent metadata amongst different machine learning frameworks. It will further elaborate on how the current TensorFlow metadata extraction tool was successfully extended to the other Scikit-learn and PyTorch frameworks and how the metadata of each were also mapped to a common ontology based-representation. Furthermore, the presentation will demonstrate the validation of the frameworks using representative MedMNIST models and discuss how MLLO is able to improve the interoperability and reusability of machine learning pipelines between multiple frameworks. Ultimately, this work demonstrates the feasibility of standardizing machine learning metadata across diverse frameworks, supporting more machine learning workflows.
